---
layout: post
title: Oracle Database Integration in R with RJDBC
comments: True
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---
SQL and R are two of the most powerful tools for data analysts. Yet many universities place much more emphasis on R than SQL. This tutorial aims to seamlessly integrate Oracle SQL with R.

RJDBC is able to connect to an Oracle database and execute SQL commands directly in R. To set up RJDBC, we need to download and install the package first.

**Step 1: Install and Load the Package**
<pre><code>install.packages('RJDBC')
library(RJDBC)</code></pre>

**Step 2: Step 2: Download Oracle RJDBC Driver**

Go to [this Oracle page](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/database/enterprise-edition/jdbc-112010-090769.html) and download the ojdbc6.jar file for your database edition. Place it in a permanent directory. 

**Step 3: Create a Driver Object in R**
 <pre><code>jdbcDriver =JDBC("oracle.jdbc.OracleDriver",classPath="/directory/ojdbc6.jar")</code></pre>
 
 **Step 4: Create a Connection to the Oracle Database**
 <pre><code>jdbcConnection =dbConnect(jdbcDriver, "jdbc:oracle:thin:@//database.hostname.com:port/service_name_or_sid", "username", "password")</code></pre>
 <!--more-->
 **Step 5: Run Oracle SQL Query**
 
 Examples:
 
* dbReadTable: read a table into a data frame
 <pre><code>table1=dbReadTable(con,'table1')</code></pre>

* dbGetQuery: read the result from a SQL statement to a data frame
 <pre><code>table2=dbGetQuery(con,'select * from table1 where name=\'string\'')</code></pre>

* dbWriteTable: write a data frame to the schema. It is typically very slow with large tables.
 <pre><code>dbWriteTable(con,'Table_Name',data)</code></pre>

* dbSendUpdate: execute SQL command
 <pre><code>dbSendUpdate(con,'drop table Dummy_Table')</code></pre>

 Note that `dbSendUpdate(con,'select * from table')` does not return anything.
